Spring boot interview questions:
1. Constructor level injection vs field level injection in springboot 
a) Immutability and Easy to Test: Dependencies are final, promoting immutability and 
ensuring that they cannot be changed after object creation.
b) In field injection, dependencies are injected directly into the fields using annotations like @Autowired
   Fields are not final and hard to write tests

2. How many bean scopes ? 
a) Singleton Scope (Default)
Description: A single instance of the bean is created and shared across the entire Spring context. The same instance 
is injected whenever the bean is requested.When to use: When the bean is stateless, or when you want to maintain 
a single shared instance across your application.  

b) Prototype Scope
Description: A new instance of the bean is created every time it is requested from the Spring container.
When to use: When you need a new instance for each injection, typically for stateful beans or when handling 
temporary or short-lived data.Container does not manages life cycle

3. What is the difference between @Component vs @Configuration
Beans are loaded from the classpath
@Component is a generic annotation used to mark a class as a Spring-managed component. 
It tells Spring that the class is a bean and should be automatically detected during classpath scanning.
@Service, @Repository, and @Controller which are more specialized versions of @Component.
The beans created by @Component are typically singleton by default, but you can change the scope using @Scope.

@Configuration is a specialization of @Component, used specifically to define configuration classes. 
It is used to declare beans explicitly via methods annotated with @Bean

4. How do you handle exceptions ?
Exception handling in Spring Boot can be done using:
@ControllerAdvice: A global exception handler that handles exceptions for multiple controllers. 
You can define methods annotated with @ExceptionHandler to specify how different exceptions should be handled.

5. Profiles in Springboot.
 You can use profiles (e.g., application-dev.properties, application-prod.yml )
 java -jar myapp.jar --spring.profiles.active=prod


Latency : Latency is the delay in time it takes for data to travel across a network or web application
QPS can stand for queries per second, a metric used to measure the amount of traffic a server receives per second. 

Q) See Top 10 interview questions on Springboot

Q) Give an example where you handled production incident in java application

Steps Taken to Resolve the Incident:
1. Initial Investigation and Gathering Information
Log Analysis: The first step was to check the application logs to identify any potential errors or bottlenecks. Using the central 
logging system (e.g., ELK Stack), 
I observed an increase in database-related warnings like connection timeout and slow query execution.

Monitoring and Metrics: I quickly checked the monitoring tools like Prometheus and Grafana (or Spring Boot Actuator endpoints) 
to analyze key metrics such as CPU usage, 
memory consumption, database connection pool usage, and overall request latency. I noticed a sharp increase in database query execution time.

2. Identifying the Root Cause
Database Bottleneck: From the log analysis and metrics, it was clear that the database was taking longer than usual to execute queries. 
I examined the slow queries
 and found that a few specific queries related to fetching data for large reports were taking a long time, leading to the latency issue.

Connection Pool Saturation: Additionally, the database connection pool (HikariCP in this case) was maxed out. This resulted in new incoming requests 
being delayed while waiting for available connections.

3. Immediate Mitigation (Temporary Fix)
Connection Pool Configuration: I temporarily increased the size of the database connection pool in the Spring Boot configuration 
(application.properties) to handle the increased load:

properties
Copy code
spring.datasource.hikari.maximum-pool-size=50
This allowed more concurrent database connections to be made, reducing the immediate pressure on the connection pool.

Query Optimization: For the long-running queries, I applied an index on frequently queried columns in the database. This helped in reducing 
the execution time of those slow queries.

4. Root Cause Resolution (Long-Term Fix)
Code Refactoring: I reviewed the application code where the slow queries were being generated. These queries were fetching large amounts of data
 unnecessarily. I refactored the logic to:

Pagination: Break down large queries into smaller chunks using pagination, which reduced the size of the result set returned by the database.
Caching: Implemented caching (using Spring Cache with Redis) for certain frequently accessed data that didn’t change often, reducing the 
number of calls made to the database.

Q) Thing which you would like to change
 RDBMS to DynamoDB
 How to handle multiple update to the same row in database at the same time ? 
 a) Optimistic lock vs Pessimistic Lock
 b) @Transactional(rollback= Exception.class) // in event of error it(transactional annotation) just rolls back the error

Q) Gateway(logs) to IAM(Identity) : Seperate api requests to get the header and offline tiicket . Then the actual api calls are made POST,GET(stateless)

Q) What is AOP ? 
Repeating the same code (like logging or transaction handling) in multiple places, leading to code duplication and making maintenance harder. 
AOP helps to modularize these concerns by separating them into reusable aspects.You create LoggingAspect using @Aspect.In springboot it is enabled.
Use Cases of AOP:
Logging: Logging method calls, parameters, and execution times.
Security: Applying security checks before method execution.
Transaction Management: Starting and committing/rolling back transactions.
Performance Monitoring: Measuring method execution time.
Caching: Adding caching mechanisms around method executions.

Q) Optimize DB failure . Use caching to optimize data fetch. indexing and increasing connection pool for short term . fine tuning query for long term.
